
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# rclasses

## Getting Started

``` r
install.packages('renv')
renv::consent(provided = TRUE)
renv::restore() 
```

## Files Seen in a Package:

#### `.gitignore` \[file\]

Files names added to this file will be ignored by git. A file which
starts with `.` is called a hidden file, but is really no different than
any other file. Directories can also be ‘hidden’ by adding `.` to the
beginning of the name.

#### `.Rprofile` \[file\]

Code which runs in R each time the project starts. This is not a file
you should edit, if it exists at all. The only commonly used case that I
am aware of is within the `renv` package which is used in this project.

#### `.Renviron` \[file\]

Environment variables, database and secret keys are stored here. *This
is a good file to add to your `.gitignore` file*.

Passwords and usernames should *never* be directly written into your
code.

#### `.Rbuildignore` \[file\]

File paths added to this directory will ignored by package build
scripts. When running `Check` on your package, non-standard files in a
package directory will give a warning. To suppress the warning,
explicity specify which files should be ignored.

#### `renv.lock` \[file\]

A singular file which will restore the environment in which a project
was created.

Rebuild your environment by calling `renv::init()`

#### `DESCRIPTION` \[file\]

Meta data about a package. Required to update when building a new
package. This file also determines what packages are loaded when calling
your package and specifies the R version required to run the package.

#### `NAMESPACE` \[file\]

Do not touch, let `roxygen2` update this file for you. When creating a
new package, delete the existing `NAMESPACE` file and let `roxygen2`
create it.

#### `R` \[folder\]

This is where all of your functions will be stored. I prefer storing one
function per file, but this is a personal preference that I do not
always follow.

#### `man` \[folder\]

Documentation generated by `roxygen2` is stored in this folder. You can
delete this folder and it is no big deal. `roxygen2` will recreate the
folder each time you call `devtools::document()` or `Install and
Restart`.

#### `main.R` \[file\]

This is not a file that comes standard in a package. I add this file to
my `.Rbuildignore` file. I like having a `main.R` file to use as a
template/scratch area while developing.

# Setting up Documentation

For documentation to be created using `Install and Restart` you must

1.  Make sure `roxygen2` is installed.
2.  Go to `Tools` \> `Project Options`
3.  Make sure everything is checked and written as in the image

[Project Example](images/package_opts.png)

# Unit Testing
